There was a lot of setup to create an account on bitbucket (or github),
populate it with our SSH key, which involved generating an SSH key, and in some
cases installing the necessary software. But after this one-time setup, we were
able to quickly create new repositories.

Another good thing to do just once on your local machine at the terminal is
to introduce yourself to git by telling it you name and email:
  git config user.name "Jane Smith"
  git config user.email "d@ucdavis.edu"


We created a repository on the bitbucket Web site/portal via the Web menus.
We copied the command to clone a repository from the bitbucket Clone command,
selecting the SSH option.
This was something like
  git clone git@bitbucket.com:duncantl/myproject.git

We executed this command in a terminal on our local machine.
This makes a copy of the repository on your local machine.

You then create new files and edit existing ones in the local folder for that repository.
You can use any software to create the files, e.g., edit a .R file in R Studio.

When you want to take a snapshot of the current state of one or more files, use
 git add file1 file2 file3 
to name the individual files.
Then 
  git commit -m "a message to describe the changes"

To share these changes with others, push them to the bitbucket repository:

  git push

(The first time you do this, you need to use
   git push -u origin master
but after that, git knows that git push means to the bitbucket repository.)

To get changes other people have committed, use

  git pull


Before git push, always do a git pull.


To find out which files are modified, which are "staged" for committing, and which 
are not tracked, you can use

   git status

-----------------




Create a repository on bitbucket or github.

git clone

git add

git status

git commit -m "...."

git push

git pull


Staging and commiting.
 git add 
 git commit
or 
 git commit -a

Putting an ssh key on bitbucket.
  If you don't have a key in $HOME/.ssh/id_rsa.pub, create one with ssh-keygen.
    You can accept the default file name, omit the passphrase (just hit enter twice).
  On OSX, use pbcopy < ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
  Then go to the bitbucket settings for your account (not repository) and go to SSH Keys.
  